---
layout: post
title: Haiku
tags:
- Design
- Personal
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta:
  _edit_last: '1'
  _thumbnail_id: '1339'
  _yoast_wpseo_metakeywords: ''
  _yoast_wpseo_metadesc: ''
  _yoast_wpseo_title: ''
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw: ''
  _yoast_wpseo_meta-robots-noindex: '0'
  _yoast_wpseo_meta-robots-nofollow: '0'
  _yoast_wpseo_meta-robots-adv: none
  _yoast_wpseo_canonical: ''
  _yoast_wpseo_redirect: ''
  dsq_thread_id: '679521782'
  recommended-listening: <a href="http://itunes.apple.com/gb/album/codex/id425806837?i=425806908"
    title="Radiohead - Codex on iTunes">Radiohead - “Codex”</a>
  _yoast_wpseo_linkdex: '0'
---
<blockquote>All I want to be
Is someone that makes new things
And thinks about them
<em>–John Maeda</em>
</blockquote>

When it comes to designing my website, I always end up creating a bunch of ideas that eventually get thrown out of the window. They mostly seem great in my head, then after a few days I start to hate them, or a friend points out just how bad my approach has been. I'm grateful for that - it keeps me on my toes.

More recently, I was restricting my usual process to the rules I'd read in books - design theory I'd picked up and thrown together in a somewhat hopeless attempt to grasp some kind of real design education (most of the things I've learnt at University are more code-oriented than design theory.) I was choking my creativity on meticulously engineered grid systems and painstakingly maintained vertical rhythm.

Then one day I turned to my work in progress and threw it out. I started again, dismissing all logic I might have otherwise used to dictate my decisions, and just went with my gut. For the whole thing. You're looking at the results. There isn't really much else to say about the redesign - there's a rough baseline of 30px at its full width, it's responsive, and I wanted huge, inflated text, musical recommendations on posts, and big cover images for those 'special' articles and pages.

The content has been stripped back for now, while I fit it all to the new design. I know I should probably have done that before I made the switch, but we all know how impatient I can be.

Now I can finally get <a href="http://daneden.me/2012/04/helsinki-here-i-come/">back to work.</a>
