---
layout: post
title: Making
tags:
- Design
status: trash
type: post
published: false
meta:
  _yoast_wpseo_redirect: ''
  _yoast_wpseo_canonical: ''
  _yoast_wpseo_sitemap-prio: ! '-'
  _yoast_wpseo_sitemap-include: ! '-'
  _yoast_wpseo_meta-robots-adv: none
  _yoast_wpseo_meta-robots-nofollow: '0'
  _yoast_wpseo_meta-robots-noindex: '0'
  _yoast_wpseo_metakeywords: ''
  _edit_last: '1'
  _yoast_wpseo_linkdex: '0'
  _yoast_wpseo_metadesc: ''
  _yoast_wpseo_title: ''
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw: ''
  _wp_trash_meta_time: '1357727837'
  _wp_trash_meta_status: draft
---
<p>Some time around late 2011, my life changed quite drastically. This was down to a few things: the realisation that everything is designed. The freeing up of a lot of my "free time." Most significantly, the idea that I could do <em>anything</em> I wanted, provided I was motivated enough. I could change my sleeping pattern so I was more productive. I could read more books. I could learn something new every day. I could create a product I previously thought to be impossible. I could impress my peers and heroes, get a job I was passionate about, and move to a place I love with a person I love. I could do all that, and the first step was waking up earlier.</p>

<p>So I did. Not out of choice, at first. I had a job to go to. So I'd get up at 6am and go to work and get back home about 6pm. Then those 12 other hours were for resting. But I could squeeze more life out of those hours. So I worked some more. I worked on <a href="http://brills.me">Brills</a> and <a href="http://daneden.me/animate">Animate.css</a>. I learned more about PHP and CSS and other things that in X years time will be obsolete. Thinking about the temporary nature of my craft motivated me to learn more about something less temporary - its roots. The foundations of design. Typography, grid systems, color theory. So I bought books. And I learned more. I hated reading, but it was easy to read about something I was genuinely passionate about. The "why," not the "how," was teaching me to be better at my craft.</p>

<h2>Staying Afloat</h2>

<p>As I sit and wonder how best to sustain my latest product, I find it hard to care about its profitability. I was never in this for the money. It's completely bewildering to me to think that there are people out there who will genuinely work their entire lives just to make a living. Or even worse, people who put a minimal amount of effort into a product they simply don't care about just so they can flip a profit. I'm incredibly lucky that from a young age, I've found something I'm passionate about that just so happens to be an ever-growing industry that pays pretty well, too. Others might not have that chance. They may <em>have</em> to work to live. But the only way they'll find that passion for something is by looking for it. Not by saying "maybe next year." I've said it before. Happiness and success isn't a measure of how much money you have, or the clients you managed to work with.</p>

<h2>Better.</h2>

<p>Passion is the best motivator. Working on something you love - something that <em>you need</em> - is incredibly fulfilling. If you're passionate about something, you'll stay up late working on it because you <em>want</em> to. You'll never stop making it better. All you need for your idea to be successful is a genuine need and a genuine passion. Success relies on <em>your</em> use of the product, no one else's. This was your idea. Make it. Use it. If you don't use it, it's not good enough. If you don't know how to build it, learn how. Ship early and ship often. Keep it simple. Never say "finished." Make mistakes. Be honest. Don't try to be the next big thing. Be the better thing.</p>

<p>I am more productive. I do read more books. I do learn something new every day. I have created a product I previously thought to be impossible. I will impress my peers and heroes, get a job I'm passionate about, and move to a place I love with a person I love. I'm not finished. I'm just getting started.</p>
